Lossy compression through coordinate sampling (#326)
cf-convention/cf-conventions: ch08.adoc

subarea, the interpolation method is permitted to access its defining tie
points, and no others.

As an interpolation method relies on the regularity and continuity of
the coordinate values within each interpolation subarea, special
attention must be given to the case when uncompressed coordinates
contain discontinuities. A discontinuity could be an overlap or a gap
in the coordinates' coverage, or a change in cell size or cell
alignment. As an example, such discontinuities are common in remote
sensing data and may be caused by combinations of the instrument scan
motion, the motion of the sensor platform and changes in the
instrument scan mode. When discontinuities are present, the domain is
first divided into multiple __continuous areas__, each of which is
free of discontinuities. When no discontinuities are present, the
whole domain is a single continuous area. Following this step, each
continuous area is segmented into interpolation subareas. The
processes of generating interpolation subareas for a domain without
discontinuities and for a domain with discontinuities is illustrated
in <<interpolation_subarea_generation>>, and described in more detail in
<<Appendix J>>.

> For each __interpolated dimension__, i.e. a target domain dimension for which coordinate interpolation is required, the locations of the tie point coordinates are defined by a corresponding __tie point index variable__, which also indicates the location of the continuous areas (<<compression-by-coordinate-sampling-tie-point-index-mapping>>).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For each __interpolated dimension__, i.e. a target domain dimension for which coordinate interpolation is required, the locations of the tie point coordinates are defined by a corresponding __tie point index variable__, which also indicates the locations of the continuous areas (<<compression-by-coordinate-sampling-tie-point-index-mapping>>).
```

> The interpolation subareas within a continuous area do not overlap, ensuring that each coordinate of an interpolated dimension is computed from a unique interpolation subarea. These interpolation subareas, however, share the tie point coordinates that define their common boundaries. Such a shared tie point coordinate can only be located in one of a pair of adjacent interpolation subareas, which is always the first of the pair in index space. For instance, in <<interpolation_subarea_generation>>, the interpolation subarea labeled `(0,0)` contains all four of its tie point coordinates, and the interpolation subarea `(0,1)` only contains two of them. When applied for a given interpolation subarea, interpolation methods, such as those described in <<Appendix J>>, must ensure that reconstituted coordinate points are only generated inside the interpolation subarea being processed, even if some of the tie point coordinates lie outside of that interpolation subarea.

Reviewer: I thought the sentence flow was a bit obfuscated by too many commas:
```suggestion
The interpolation subareas within a continuous area do not overlap, ensuring that each coordinate of an interpolated dimension is computed from a unique interpolation subarea. These interpolation subareas, however, share the tie point coordinates that define their common boundaries. Such a shared tie point coordinate can only be located in one of a pair of adjacent interpolation subareas, which is always the first of the pair in index space. For instance, in <<interpolation_subarea_generation>>, the interpolation subarea labeled `(0,0)` contains all four of its tie point coordinates, and the interpolation subarea `(0,1)` only contains two of them. When applied for a given interpolation subarea, interpolation methods (such as those described in <<Appendix J>>) must ensure that reconstituted coordinate points are only generated inside the interpolation subarea being processed, even if some of the tie point coordinates lie outside of that interpolation subarea.
```

 
Adjacent interpolation subareas that are in different continuous areas never share tie point coordinates, as  consequence of the grid discontinuity between them. This results in a different number of tie point coordinates in the two cases shown in <<interpolation_subarea_generation>>.

For each interpolated dimension, the number of interpolation subareas is equal to the number of tie points minus the number of continuous areas.

[[interpolation_subarea_generation, figure 1]]
[.text-center]
.Process for generating the interpolation subareas for a grid without discontinuities and for a grid with discontinuities.
image::images/ci_interpolation_zone_generation_process.svg[,100%,pdfwidth=50vw,align="center"] 

[[compression-by-coordinate-sampling-tie-points-attribute, Section 8.3.2, "Coordinate Interpolation Attribute"]]
==== Coordinate Interpolation Attribute

> To indicate that coordinate interpolation is required, a **`coordinate_interpolation`** attribute must be defined for a data variable. This is a string attribute that both identifies the tie point coordinate variables, and maps non-overlapping subsets of them to their corresponding interpolation variables. It is a blank-separated list of words of the form "__tie_point_variable: [tie_point_variable: ...] interpolation_variable [tie_point_variable: [tie_point_variable: ...] interpolation_variable ...]__". For example, to specify that the tie point coordinate variables `lat` and `lon` are to be interpolated according to the interpolation variable `bi_linear` could be indicated with `lat: lon: bi_linear`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To indicate that coordinate interpolation is required, a **`coordinate_interpolation`** attribute must be defined for a data variable. This is a string attribute that both identifies the tie point coordinate variables, and maps non-overlapping subsets of them to their corresponding interpolation variables. It is a blank-separated list of words of the form "__tie_point_coordinate_variable: [tie_point_coordinate_variable: ...] interpolation_variable [tie_point_coordinate_variable: [tie_point_coordinate_variable: ...] interpolation_variable ...]__". For example, to specify that the tie point coordinate variables `lat` and `lon` are to be interpolated according to the interpolation variable `bi_linear` could be indicated with `lat: lon: bi_linear`.
```

**`tie_point_mapping`** attribute that contains a blank-separated
list of words of the form __"interpolated_dimension: tie_point_index_variable
subsampled_dimension [interpolation_subarea_dimension]
[interpolated_dimension: ...]"__, the details of which are described in the following two sections.

[[compression-by-coordinate-sampling-tie-point-dimension-mapping, Section 8.3.6, "Tie Point Dimension Mapping"]]
==== Tie Point Dimension Mapping

The **`tie_point_mapping`** attribute defined above associates 
each interpolated dimension with its corresponding subsampled 
 dimension and, if required, its corresponding 
 __interpolation subarea dimension__ that defines the number of
interpolation subareas which partition the interpolated dimension. 
It is only required to associate an interpolated dimension  
to an interpolation subarea dimension in the case that the interpolation 
subarea dimension is spanned by an interpolation parameter variable, 
as described in
<<compression-by-coordinate-sampling-interpolation-parameters>>. 
If an interpolation subarea dimension is provided then it must be 
the second of the two named dimensions following the tie point index variable.

> Note that an interpolation subarea dimension has, by definition, the same size as the corresponding subsampled dimension, minus the number of continuous areas.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Note that the size of an interpolation subarea dimension is, by definition, the size of the corresponding subsampled dimension minus the number of continuous areas.
```

for the example of 2D bounds. Since the  cell bounds are contiguous, bounds points of adjacent cells will coincide and so the full set of bounds points may be represented as a grid, comparable to the coordinate points grid. In the middle part of <<figure_interpolation_of_cell_boundaries>>
, both the reconstituted bounds points grid and the reconstituted coordinate points grid are shown for a continuous area, where  each bounds point may be shared by up to four cells. 

> Bounds interpolation uses the same tie point index variables and therefore the same tie point cells as coordinate interpolation. One of the vertices of each coordinate tie point cell is chosen as the bounds tie point for the cell. It is selected as the vertex of the tie point cell that is the closest to the boundary of the interpolation subarea with respect to each interpolated dimension. For the example of 2D bounds, the resulting set of bounds tie points are marked in <<figure_interpolation_of_cell_boundaries>>, where the selected vertices are those closets to the corners of the interpolation subareas. 

Reviewer: closets -> closest

Reviewer 2: Now corrected as part of be8f18d
